<h1>$${\color{red}NETCAT}$$</h1>

### Netcat
As mentioned previously, Netcat is the most basic tool in a pentester's toolkit when it comes to any kind of networking. With it we can do a wide variety of interesting things, but let's focus for now on shells.

***********

- Reverse Shells

In the previous task we saw that reverse shells require shellcode and a listener. There are many ways to execute a shell, so we'll start by looking at listeners.

The syntax for starting a netcat listener using Linux is this:

``` nc -lvnp <port-number> ```

    -l is used to tell netcat that this will be a listener
    -v is used to request a verbose output
    -n tells netcat not to resolve host names or use DNS. Explaining this is outwith the scope of the room.
    -p indicates that the port specification will follow.

The example in the previous task used port 443. Realistically you could use any port you like, as long as there isn't already a service using it. Be aware that if you choose to use a port below 1024, you will need to use sudo when starting your listener. That said, it's often a good idea to use a well-known port number (80, 443 or 53 being good choices) as this is more likely to get past outbound firewall rules on the target.

A working example of this would be:

``` sudo nc -lvnp 443 ```

*********

+ Bind Shells

If we are looking to obtain a bind shell on a target then we can assume that there is already a listener waiting for us on a chosen port of the target: all we need to do is connect to it. The syntax for this is relatively straight forward:

``` nc <target-ip> <chosen-port> ```

Here we are using netcat to make an outbound connection to the target on our chosen port.

<br>

> How would you connect to a bind shell on the IP address: 10.10.10.11 with port 8080?
> ``` nc 10.10.10.11 8080```

*******

if this content liked you, follow me [Here](https://github.com/4bo4yman) ;)
